- [Instructor] Continuous integration or CI,
helps teams increase the quality of their code and keeps
their code base in a working state that's always deployable.
Within our continuous delivery process,
the CI phase is triggered each time code is merged
into the repository.
For teams experienced with the practice,
this might occur many times per day or several times
each hour.
By merging their code this frequently,
teams avoid the integration of large change sets
towards the end of the project.
That's because they're always integrating their code.
So they never encounter this situation.
The continuous integration process is often modeled
as a separate pipeline that has the goal
of producing an artifact.
For modern Java applications,
this is a container image that gets stored within a registry
where it can be retrieved for deployment.
The CI pipeline is executed by a platform
known as a continuous integration server,
but sometimes you'll hear it referred to as a build server
or an automation server.
In our course, we'll be using Jenkins.
It automates and orchestrates the execution of a pipeline
script that declares the tasks necessary to build,
verify, and package our software.
These tasks often use third-party plugins
to perform their work.
So, you'll typically find plugins that integrate build tools
like Maven or that perform specialized tasks
like checking that code coverage meets certain standards.
Let's take a look at some steps you might find declared
in a simple CI pipeline.
When a CI server detects a code change,
it pulls an exact copy of the repository code
onto a clean environment.
Here, a build tool like Maven compiles and packages
the software.
There's two really important points to highlight here.
The source code used to perform the build
matches exactly what's in the code repository and the build
is performed on a clean server.
Since the build occurs on a neutral server,
it can detect any problems that might not appear
on a local workstation.
So if you forget to check a file into Git,
it's going to break your build.
After the code is built,
automated tests are executed against the binaries
to ensure they function as expected.
If those tests pass, the code is then analyzed
using static analysis tools like SonarQube.
It can provide reports that help us measure and enforce
code quality.
If the software meets the quality standards,
it's then packaged into a container image,
which is stored in a container registry where it waits
deployment to an environment.
Through automation, the CI pipeline standardizes
the repeatable process which builds, verifies,
and packages our software.
This is what enables the software team to perform so many
frequent builds and keeps the flow of changes
to our software constant.